# SSV
## Sudoku Solution Validator

### Problem

To design a multithreaded application that determines whether
the solution to a Sudoku puzzle is valid.
- Passing parameters to each thread
- Returning results to the parent thread

### Solution

The solution is implemented in C using pthreads. The program reads a Sudoku solution generated by a predifined function and checks the validity of the solution by creating 3 threads to check the rows, columns, and subgrids of the Sudoku solution. The program uses the following functions: 

- `createRandomPuzzle`: A function that generates a random Sudoku solution. In common sense, a random Sudoku solution is not guaranteed to be valid.
- `createValidSudoku`: A function that creates a valid Sudoku solution.
- `displaySudoku`: A function that displays the Sudoku solution.
- `checkRow`: A function that checks the validity of each row in the Sudoku solution.
- `checkCol`: A function that checks the validity of each column in the Sudoku solution.
- `checkBox`: A function that checks the validity of each 3x3 subgrid in the Sudoku solution.
- `checkSudoku`: A function that creates 3 threads to check the validity of rows, columns, and subgrids in the Sudoku solution.

Note that the functions `checkRow`, `checkCol`, and `checkBox` are called by the threads to check the validity of the Sudoku solution. In order to address the dissapointment of an invalid solution, the program dereferences a null pointer to cause a segmentation fault, terminating the program.

In this way, player should never fail to complete a valid Sudoku solution, as the program will crash. It is advisable to include this feature in the difficulty level of Asian of Sudoku games.

### Instructions

To compile and run the program, use the following commands:

```bash
make
```

user will be prompted to choose between a random or a valid Sudoku solution where 0 indicates a valid solution and 1 indicates a random solution. The program will then display the Sudoku solution and check its validity.
